Now let's switch back to our workspace and see how we can use
a join to merge two tables or streams using KSQL.
So we're back in our workspace and we're going to go
ahead and first perform a left outer join to
create a table which represents a combination of both user data and purchase data.
We're going to join users onto the purchases table by joining on the username.
Both the purchases and the users table and stream.
So users is the table, purchases is a stream are both keyed on username,
and we're going to basically select the join of the two.
So we're going to say, grab the username from user or their address,
their phone number, or their e-mail,
but then from the purchase,
grab the amount and currency.
So we're going to join these two into one single output stream.
Let's go ahead and run this.
Whoops, that should be a create stream,
let's go ahead and do that one more time.
Now, why would it be a stream versus a table?
Well, the answer here is because essentially for
every single purchase event that comes in,
we're selecting from purchases,
we're going to actually be creating an equivalent event on the output stream.
So this means that we're creating another stream.
We're taking an event, adding some data to it, and then emitting an event.
It's a one-to-one operation.
So essentially what we're doing here is creating stream and not a table,
which is why we got this error.
So now we've created that stream,
let's take a look and monitor the output.
Let's see what we get. So we should see a lot more data in here.
I'm just going to exit really quick. So we can look at this.
So you can see that we have the time at which this occurred, the username,
let's see what else we have here,
we've got the address,
we've got phone number,
e-mail, purchase amount, and currency.
Great. So that was a left outer join.
Now, let's take a look at how we can do an inner join.
The syntax is essentially identical to what we
just saw but I just want to demonstrate that it's possible to do this.
So we're going to go ahead and simply run.
But first, we're going to terminate the previous query because we no longer need it.
So we're going to grab this,
and we're going to terminate the query,
and then we're going to show our streams,
and get rid of that stream since we're going to reuse it,
and we're going to drop stream user purchases.
Next, we're going to do that inner join.
Like I said, it's exactly the same as syntax.
We're simply saying inner join.
Now, it's worth mentioning again,
stream to stream, table table,
and stream to table joins are possible in KSQL,
and all three of those types support both left outer and inner joins.
So this is still supported.
So we're going to go ahead and run this.
Again, I have the same mistake here that I call this a table but it's actually a stream,
so I apologize for that.
So you can go ahead and create that stream,
and you can see that stream is up and running.
So again, we can just do select star from user purchases.
Seeing the data's flowing through.
Again, we can see that we now have this inner join.
Now, in this particular example in this particular workspace,
there's always going to be a one-to-one mapping between users and purchase,
and that's because the simulation behind the scenes that's actually generated
the data always generates a purchase based on some user in the system.
So we're never really going to encounter any of the areas where
the join may actually lose
information or not have something to join into in the other table.
So let me run that query.
Let's finally do a full outer join.
So we're going to terminate this query,
and we're going to drop
stream user purchases and let's finally show off this full outer join.
So let's take that and notice the only thing different here is full outer join,
and remember we're performing a full outer join on a stream to table.
So recall that stream to table joins have some special circumstances around them,
and you can see it immediately fails because we cannot
perform a full outer join from a stream to a table.
Full outer joins are only supported on streams to streams or tables to tables.
So unfortunately, we can't actually do this full outer join.